Hi. This is Marty from Blue Lightning TV.
I'm going to show you how to quickly
place a tattoo onto someone,
wrap it around the contours of the
skin and even change its color.
You can apply these to text, as well.
If you'd like to use this font,
I provided its link in the video
description or project files.
Before we begin,
you should have two documents ready.
One is the photo you'd like to use for
your subject
and the other is a black and white
design for the tattoo.
If you'd like to use this design, I provided
its link, as well. If the tattoo wraps around
any part of your subject
such as the arm in this example,
you need to make a selection of the arm
to ensure that the tattoo will be
confined to that area.
There are many ways to make selections
and I covered them in many of my
tutorials.
Once you make your selection,
to see it as a quick mask,
press Q on your keyboard. Since I'll be
placing the tattoo on the
upper arm, I make sure the selection
surrounds that entire area.
Go to Select and Save Selection.
When this window pops up, just click OK.
To delete the selection, press Ctrl + D
on a PC or Cmd + D on a Mac.
Make a copy of the layer
by pressing Ctrl or Cmd + J. We'll use this
copy to make a displacement map.
The displacement map will wrap the tattoo
around the contours of your subject
based on your subject's
shadows, midtones and highlights. Since
displacement maps work best when they're
slightly blurred,
go to Filter, Blur and Gaussian Blur.
I'll blur this image 3 pixels.
Go to File and Save As.
Save it to your desktop.
Name it "Displacement" as a PSD file.
Then, click "Save".  If you see this window,
click OK. Now we can trash the blurred layer
since we don't need anymore.
Open your tattoo design.
We need to make a selection of the shape, so we can cut it out from its background.
One of the quickest ways to separate
black and white
is to use your Magic Wand Tool.
Make the Tolerance 5 pixels,
make sure Anti-Alias is checked
and Contiguous is unchecked.  Click
anywhere on the tattoo.
This created a selection
of everything that's black. To cut the
design out from its background
and copy it to its own layer, press
Ctrl or Cmd + J.  To get it
onto your subject, open your Move Tool
by pressing "v"
on your keyboard. Then, drag it up onto
the tab of your subject.
Without releasing your mouse or pen,
drag it down
onto the image and then release.
To resize and position it,
open your Transform Tool by pressing
Ctrl
or Cmd + T.  Go to a corner
and when you see a curved, double-arrow,
rotate it to an angle you like.
To reposition it, click inside and move it.
Continue until you're happy with its angle,
size and position.
Then, press Enter or Return.
The tattoo will blend in better with the skin
if it's slightly blurred. So go to Filter,
Blur and Gaussian Blur. We'll blur it 1 pixel.
Then, click OK. Next,
we'll use the displacement map to conform
the shape of the tattoo to the contours
of the arm.  Go to Filter, Distort
and Displace. We'll displace the
Horizontal and Vertical scales by 10,
choose Stretch To Fit
and Repeat Edge Pixels.
Click OK
and click the Displacement PSD file.
Then, click "Open".
As I toggle back and forth,
you can see that the shape
adjusted itself based on the tonal values
of the arm.
Next, we'll hide the parts the tattoo
that extend beyond the
outside of the arm. Ctrl-click
or Cmd-click on the thumbnail of the
tattoo to make a selection of shape.
Open the Channels panel, go to "Alpha 1"
and press Ctrl + Shift + Alt on a PC
or Cmd + Shift + Opt on a Mac
as you click on it.
This deletes the selection outside the arm.
Open back up the Layers panel and click
on the layer mask icon to make a layer
mask of the selection.
next to the tattoo
Next, we'll blend the tattoo onto the skin.
First, change the blend mode to Soft Light
and make a composite snapshot of your
image by pressing Ctrl + Shift + Alt + E
on a PC or Cmd + Shift + Opt + E
on a Mac.
Make a copy of it.  Go to the layer mask
and press and hold Alt a PC
or Opt on a Mac
as you drag a copy of it
next to the top layer.
Click on a thumbnail to make it active
and click on the adjustment layer icon.
Choose Hue/Saturation
and click the Clip-to-Layer icon.
This clips or restricts the adjustment layer
to effect just the one layer beneath it.
I'll reduce the Saturation to minus 30.
Keep in mind, since every photo is different, you may want to adjust the
numbers we'll be using
in the adjustment layers.
For this photo,
I'll change the Lightness to minus 40.
Many at the tattoo tutorials that I've
seen up to this point
use "Multiply" for the blend mode, but I
find that this blend mode dulls the tones
and nuances of the skin
under the tattoo. As I toggle back and forth,
you can see the difference.  If you want
to change the color of the tattoo,
experiment with the sliders to get just
the color you want.
Using these simple techniques,
have fun creating realistic tattoos.
This is Marty from Blue Lightning TV.
Thanks for watching!